feat: Propose Across Bond Token for use as collateral (#591)
UMAprotocol/UMIPs: UMIPs/umip-178.md

## Headers

| UMIP-167            |                                                      |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| UMIP Title          | Add ABT as a supported collateral currency           |
| Authors             | paul@uma.xzy                                         |
| Status              | Draft                                                |
| Created             | 2023-08-23                                           |

> | Discourse Link      | https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/591        |

Reviewer: Do we need a discourse link @claytonroche?

Reviewer 2: No, you can remove that line.

Author: Done: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/591/commits/151eb20eb445229905f56dbc3c293f6482aeb650

## Summary (2-5 sentences)

> This UMIP proposes adding the Across Bond Token (ABT) for use as collateral in UMA contracts. ABT implements custom transfer logic, permitting Across to realise a permissioned set of HubPool proposers, thereby reducing the "proposal attack surface" of Across.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This UMIP proposes adding the Across Bond Token (ABT) for use as collateral in UMA contracts. ABT implements custom transfer logic, permitting Across to realise a permissioned set of HubPool proposers, thereby reducing the "proposal attack surface" (PAS hereon) of Across.
```

Author: I ended up just condensing to "attack surface", since "proposal attack surface" ended up sounding very pretty awkward.

> This UMIP proposes adding the Across Bond Token (ABT) for use as collateral in UMA contracts. ABT implements custom transfer logic, permitting Across to realise a permissioned set of HubPool proposers, thereby reducing the "proposal attack surface" of Across.

Reviewer: I would add a small note in the summary that outside of the Across protocol, this token functions identically to WETH.

Author: The Implementation section describes this, but I'll add it to the Summary as well :+1: 

`ABT implements a simple mechanism that restricts the set of possible proposers, whilst still allowing for permissionless disputes. It achieves this be overriding the WETH9 transferFrom() function in order to implement custom transfer logic, such that it prevents any non-approved address from transferring any amount of ABT to the Across v2 HubPool contract if they are recorded as the current proposer. This effectively prohibits Across HubPool proposals by any non-approved addresses. All other ERC20 functionality is inherited directly from a local WETH9 implementation.`

Author: Implemented: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/591/commits/17337b4c45883b43957ecc4938be465976d976e7.

## Motivation

Across relies on an Optimistic Asserter proposal pattern in order to verify that any proposed allocation of HubPool funds is valid and correct. Across proposers submit a proof as part of their proposal, which can be permissionally verified and optionally disputed by any observer of the system. Proposals that survive a 2 hour challenge window are subsequently able to be executed, thereby resulting in the movement of funds.

As with disputing, it is currently permissionless to propose a root bundle proposal in Across. This unfortunately provides an opportunity for malicious third-parties to submit invalid proposals in order to extract funds from the system. This marginal risk dictates the need for a lengthy challenge window on proposals in order to ensure that any such proposals are detected and disputed. This thereby reduces the number of proposals that can be made and ultimately limits the frequency at which Across HubPool funds can be allocated to bridging activities, such as refunding relayers for user deposits that they have filled.

> The Across Bond Token has been designed specifically to enhance the security of Across by limiting the set of possible Across proposers, whilst still allowing any independent observer to dispute an invalid proposal. By ensuring that proposals only originate from pre-approved actors, Across will have reduced its "proposal attack surface" and will therefore be able to reduce its 2 hour challenge window. This will allow Across to scale further by reducing the time that relayers must wait for refunds, thereby improving their capital efficiency, and will ultimately deliver a better experience for the users of Across.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Across Bond Token has been designed specifically to enhance the security of Across by limiting the set of possible Across proposers, whilst still allowing any independent observer to dispute an invalid proposal. By ensuring that proposals only originate from pre-approved actors, Across will have reduced its PAS and will therefore be able to reduce its 2 hour challenge window. This will allow Across to scale further by reducing the time that relayers must wait for refunds, thereby improving their capital efficiency, and will ultimately deliver a better experience for the users of Across.
```

## Technical Specification

The following changes are proposed:

> -   The ABT address [0xtbd](https://etherscan.io/address/0xtbd) shall be added to the collateral currency list introduced by UMIP-8.

Reviewer 3: Should we avoid using dead links?
```suggestion
-   The ABT address (TBD) shall be added to the collateral currency list introduced by UMIP-8.
```

Author: I've deployed it in the mean time, so I've updated the link in this commit: https://github.com/UMAprotocol/UMIPs/pull/591/commits/c646e5fdbae680db5ae3bcbe456249c460cece0b.
